unsatisfactory for quite some time. Digital Services is strategically important for our future success and for the success of our cus- tomers, as they virtualize their networks and become fully digital enterprises. In 2017 Digi- tal Services reported significant losses and our first priority has been to stabilize our product roadmaps and large transformation projects. We have made great progress during the year. We are now focusing on restoring profitability, by increasing software content but also by taking costs out in service delivery. 
some 30% of the 10 billion cost reduction target. The emphasis is on reduction of IT spend, indirect spend as well as real estate site footprint and facility management. In 2017, Ericsson identified a number of sites to be closed down.
equity each time of the income statement charge. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share settled pro- gram is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions. For further detailed information, see Note C28, “Information regarding mem- bers of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees.” 
IFRS 16 – Leases In January 2016, IASB issued a new lease standard, IFRS 16, that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from all leases, with some exceptions, to be recognized on the balance sheet. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee always obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. The accounting for lessors will be based on the same classification as under IAS 17, operating or finance leasing. The definition of a lease is amended. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Company will apply the new standard as from January 1, 2019. The initial assessment indi- cates that the main impact on the balance sheet is expected, where the Com- pany is the lessee, primarily in contracts for real estate and vehicles. The Com- pany plans to apply a modified transition method. The impact on the financial statements is not yet defined. In Note C27, “Leasing,” disclosure is given about future lease payments.
1) Some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet as 
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price (through stock purchase plans for employees) and other share-based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share settled and some are cash settled as further disclosed in Note C1, “Significant accounting policies” and Note C28, “Information regarding members of the Board of Directors, the Group management and employees .”
1) Some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet 
Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty as well as geopolitical risks may adversely impact the demand and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncer- tainty as well as geopolitical risk could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our custom- ers. Adverse global economic conditions and political unrest and uncer- tainty as well as geopolitical risk could cause operators and other cus- tomers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to improve their financial position. This could result in significantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, including network infrastructure, in which case our operating results would suffer. If demand for our products and services were to fall in the future, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic conditions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other cus- tomers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur borrowing difficulties and slower traffic development, which may negatively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services. The potential adverse effects of an economic downturn include: – Reduced demand for products and services, resulting in increased 
We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits  of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely  affect our business. We announced a restructuring plan in 2017 to realign our cost structure in connection with a company transformation to achieve operating efficiencies and drive profitability. Implementation of the restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business. For example, restruc- turing charges of SEK –8.5 (–7.6) b. had a significant negative impact on our reported 2017 results. We may also not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may 
experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructur- ing can require a significant amount of management and other employ- ees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, or if we do not complete the restructuring on schedule, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputation and share price.
We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants, including IT companies entering the telecommunica- tions market, and this could materially adversely affect our results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive in terms of price, functionality, service quality, customization, timing of develop- ment, and the introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from significant competitors, many of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with operators. We also encounter increased competition from new market entrants and alternative technologies are evolving industry standards. In particular, we face competition from large IT companies and web scale companies entering the telecommu- nications market who benefit from economies of scale due to being active in several industries. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and develop- ment costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share.
Certain long-term agreements with customers include commitments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and con- trol our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such con- tracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, oper- ating results and financial condition.
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production capac- ity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial counterpart risks to suppliers when we pay in advance for supplies. Such supply disruptions and cost increases may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we con- duct business offer only limited protection of intellectual property rights, if at all. Our solutions may also require us to license technologies from third-parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and there can be no assurance that they will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third-parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products.
If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty col- lecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we deter- mine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic condi- tions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. We may be unable to avoid future losses on our trade receivables. We have also experienced demands for customer financing, and in adverse financial markets or more competitive environments, those demands may increase. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experi- ence losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
sanctions or other trade embargoes in force. The political situation in parts of the world, particularly in the Middle East, remains uncertain and the level of sanctions is still relatively high from a historical perspective. A universal element of these sanctions is the financial restrictions with respect to individuals and legal entities, but sanctions can also restrict certain exports and ultimately lead to a complete trade embargo towards a country. Specifically, on Iran, the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (“JCPOA”) has led to a reduction of sanc- tions, particularly on the EU side. Although some of the sanctions against Iran have been reduced, there are provisions to re-introduce these sanctions if parts of the agreement are not met. The change in political leadership in the U.S. has also led to an increased uncertainty about the country’s position in foreign policy, including the commitment to the JCPOA and sanctions towards Iran and other countries. Further there is a risk in many countries of unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange controls, or other governmental policies which could limit our operations and decrease our profitability. Furthermore export control regulations, sanc- tions or other forms of trade restrictions targeting countries in which we are active may result in a reduction of commitment in those countries. The need to terminate activities as a result of further trade restrictions may also expose us to customer claims and other inherent risks. Although we seek to comply with all export control and sanctions regu- lations, there can be no assurance that we are or will be compliant with all relevant regulations at all times. Such potential violations could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, reputation and brand.
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This may adversely affect the telecommunications business and may have a negative impact for people, our reputation and brand. 
We may fail to comply with our corporate governance standards, which could negatively affect our business, operating results,  financial condition, reputation and brand. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations as well as several corporate responsibility and sustainability requirements. In some of the countries where we operate, corruption risks are high, there- fore there is a higher focus on anticorruption. To ensure that our opera- tions are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and require- ments, our management system includes a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct and a Sustainability Policy, as well as other policies and directives to govern our processes and operations. However, our commitment to apply the UN Global Compact ten principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and principles of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative to our operations cannot fully prevent unintended or unlawful use of our tech- nology by democratic and non-democratic regimes, violation of our Code of Business Ethics, corruption, fraud, embezzlement, or violations of anti-trust legislation, trade restrictions and international sanctions or our Code of Conduct in Ericsson or in the supply chain. There is also an increased demand from external stakeholders, for example non-govern- mental organizations and investors, on transparency about sustainabil- ity and corporate responsibility issues that might be difficult to fulfill. Ericsson is voluntarily cooperating with inquiries from the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States Depart- ment of Justice regarding its compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These inquiries currently concern the period from January 2007 onwards. While the outcome of these inquiries is currently not determinable, they could result in penalties or other measures that are significant. While we attempt to monitor and audit internally and exter- nally our compliance with the policies and directives as well as our sup- pliers’ adherence to our Code of Conduct and strive for continuous improvements, we cannot provide any assurances that violations will not occur which could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, and brand. 
The words “believe,” “expect,” “foresee,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “intend,” “likely,” “projects,” “may,” “could,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “predict,” “aim,” “ambition,” “seek,” “potential,” “target,” “might,” “continue,” or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking state- ments. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
Board of LTV 2017, the Board has resolved to propose to AGM in 2018 to approve a LTV program similar in design to LTV 2017 . While LTV 2017 only included three-year targets relating to TSR, the targets for LTV 2018 have been developed to also include a one-year Group Oper- ating Income target for 2018. It is proposed for all targets to have a three-year vesting period. Also for LTV 2018, the value of the underlying shares in respect of the Performance Share Awards made to Executive Team members (other than the President & CEO) is proposed to be increased from 22.5% to between 30% and 70% of the respective annual base salaries. This will be done by way of transferring some part of the short-term variable compensation opportunity to the long-term variable compensation, following the principle of total remuneration to remain unchanged. The aim is to support achieving the Company’s 2020 targets and to increase the long-term focus and alignment with the long-term expectations of the shareholders.
Some of the Group Policies and Directives that are of particular relevance from a sustain- ability and corporate responsibility perspective are the Code of Business Ethics, the Code of Conduct, the Sustainability Policy, the Occu- pational Health and Safety Policy, the Electro- magnetic Fields and Health Policy, the Sales Compliance Policy and the Anti-corruption Group Directive, which reflect how Ericsson shall work to secure responsible business practices. These policies and practices are reinforced by employee awareness training and monitoring. Compliance to Group Policies are mandatory for all employees and operations unless a deviation is approved by the CEO.
components Ericsson acknowledges the potential risks in our supply chain associated with resource exploitation such as mining of minerals but also water scarcity and risks of pollution. Some of these risks include armed conflicts, human rights violations and negative environmental impacts. In 2017 the Company strengthened its Code of Conduct to cover responsible sourcing of raw materials and made it more clear that all suppliers shall exercise due diligence with respect to the sourcing and extraction of raw materials. The due diligence shall be consistent with relevant parts of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance.
A big challenge is to increase the volume of take-back products at end of life, which is mainly due to the extensive second-hand market for used equipment. Ericsson retrieved over 11,890 tonnes of e-waste from our cus- tomers in 2017, in addition we retrieved approximately 360 tonnes of batteries. The Company sees a risk that some products might end up in the informal waste sector where poor working conditions and health risks to workers can occur.
To minimize this risk, Ericsson remains committed to its goal of retrieving 20,000 tonnes by 2020. The Company has started a project to review and improve its product take-back operations. Together with some of its customers Ericsson has also made a joint commitment to manage e-waste more effec- tively and thereby save valuable resources. 
In Ericsson’s leadership development pro- grams, women make up 39% of the partici- pants in the executive programs and 34% in the early career programs. Business transfor- mation, reorganizations, mergers and acquisi- tions may to some extent have an impact on the gender ratios, and are thus monitored carefully and reviewed in connection to any larger changes within the Company. 
Text på märket:
2020 net sales growth driven by Networks In 2018 Ericsson reported an organic and FX adjusted sales growth of 1%. The 2020 ambi- tion for company net sales is SEK 210–220 billion (based on a USD to SEK rate of 8.70), to be compared with SEK 210.8 billion in 2018. Growth is mainly expected in Networks, driven by a growing radio access network (RAN) market and selective gains in mar- ket share. This will be partly offset by contin- ued descoping of some businesses follow- ing implementation of the focused business strategy. 
On top of the cost efficiency payback, tele com operators have options to address new incremental revenue opportunities based on their market specifics. For some, fixed wireless access will be a key growth opportunity to address a new market or underserved customers. Fixed wireless access is starting in North America where 5G services already were launched in 2018, but we see it gaining momentum also in other parts of the world. 
Our philosophies To build greater transparency and alignment about what informs some of our most critical people related decisions, we defined a set of people philosophies. 
Learning and development We have a comprehensive digital learning portal, called Ericsson Academy, which is inte- grated with our Performance Management and Learning Management systems. It con- nects employees to over 23,000 educational experiences – some self-paced and others instructor-led that drive upskilling and re- skilling. The average learning hours in 2018 was 21.3 hours. 
Market trends South East Asia and Oceania includes developed markets with some of the most advanced networks in the world, as well as developing economies that have only recently launched LTE. 3G is still the domi- nant technology, at 48% of all sub scriptions. However, LTE subscriptions grew by 70% during 2018, taking a share of 26%. 
Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities reached SEK 9.3 (9.6) billion. Working capital efficiency has improved as a result of a strong focus on cash flow. The business growth in 2018 and high delivery and invoicing volumes towards the end of the year led to some build-up of trade receivables, to be collected in the coming periods. Inventory and trade payables also increased to meet customer demand in a growing market. The combined working capi- tal KPI (sales outstanding days plus inventory days less payable days) improved to 89 (102) days. The ambition is to maintain working capital efficiency and thereby effectively convert income to cash. Cash outlays related to provisions were SEK –6.9 (–8.2) billion, of which cash outlays related to restructuring charges were SEK –4.1 (–5.3) billion. 
In 2012 and 2013, Intellectual Ventures (“IV”) filed patent infringement lawsuits in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s U.S. customers of infringing 16 U.S. Patents,  seeking an injunction and monetary dam- ages. Ericsson’s customers were successful in a number of dispositive motions before trial. This matter is currently on appeal before the Federal Circuit. 
IV subsequently filed additional lawsuits in the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s U.S. customers of infringing 12 U.S. Patents, seeking monetary damages. Ericsson successfully invalidated a number of IV’s patents through inter partes review proceed- ings. Ericsson and its customers also were successful on a variety of dispositive motions before trial. IV appealed a number of these rulings to the Federal Circuit. One claim of one patent survived these appeals and has been remanded to the District of Delaware.
Eastern District of Texas accusing Ericsson and some of Ericsson’s U.S customers of infringing 10 U.S. Patents. In February 2019, a jury awarded IV damages of USD 43 million in one of those lawsuits. Ericsson disagrees with the jury’s verdict and intends to appeal. Separately, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board has instituted a review of the patents that were the subject of the February 2019 trial, following its finding that there is a reasonable likelihood that those patents are unpatent- able. The next case is currently set to go to trial in May 2019.
upon delivery of the hardware or software and completion of installation services. A proportion of the transaction price may be billed upon formal acceptance of the related installation services, which will result in a contract asset for the proportion of the transaction price that is not yet billed. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
Customized solution Some products and services are sold together as part of a customized solution to the customer. This type of contract requires significant installation and integration services to be delivered within the solution, normally over a period of more than 1 year. These products and services are viewed together as a combined performance obligation. This type of contract is usually sold as 
Transaction price under these contracts is usually a fixed fee, split into a number of progress payments or billing milestones as defined in the contract. In most cases, revenue recognized is limited to the progress payments or unconditional billing milestones over the duration of the contract, therefore no contract asset or contract liability arises on these contracts. In some contracts, revenue may be recognized in advance of billing milestones if enforceable payment rights exist at all times over the contract duration. This will result in an unbilled receivable balance until billing milestones are reached. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
The transaction price on these contracts is usually structured as a royalty fee based on sales or usage over the period, measured on a quarterly basis. This results in a receivable balance if the billing is performed the following quarter after measurement. Some contracts include lump sum amounts, payable either up front at commencement or on an annual basis. This results in a contract liability balance if payment is in advance of revenue, as revenue is recognized over time. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date.
The amount charged to the income statement for these plans is reversed in equity each time of the income statement charge. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share settled program is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions. For further detailed information, see Note G3, “Share-based compensation.” 
leases previously classified as operating leases. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate to be applied to lease liabilities recognized in the balance sheet at the transition date is estimated to 5.4%. Right-of-use assets will for most contracts be recognized based on the amount equal to the related lease liability. For some larger real estate contracts right-of-use assets are recognized as if IFRS 16 had been applied since the commencement date, however, using the incremental borrowing rate as per the effective date. The asset value for these contracts is estimated to be SEK 0.3 billion lower than the related liabilities. It is this differences that causes the reduction of equity as per transition date.
Accounting for lessees The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from all leases, with some exceptions, to be recognized on the balance sheet. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee always obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. 
2017, IV filed additional lawsuits in the Eastern District of Texas accusing Ericsson and some of Ericsson’s U.S customers of infringing 10 U.S. Patents. In February 2019, a jury awarded IV damages of USD 43 million in one of those lawsuits. Ericsson disagrees with the jury’s verdict and intends to appeal. Separately, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board has instituted review of the patents that were the subject of the February 2019 trial, following its findings that there is a reasonable likelihood that those patents are  unpatentable. The next case is currently set to go to trial in May 2019. 
1) Prior to 2018, some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance 
Financial instruments carried at other than fair value Financial instruments, such as some cash equivalents, interest-bearing securities, borrowings and payables, are carried at amortized cost which is deemed to be equal to fair value. When a market price is not readily available and there is insign i ficant interest rate exposure and credit spreads affecting the value, the carrying value is considered to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value. 
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price (through stock purchase plans for employees) and other share-based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share settled and some are cash settled as further disclosed in Note A1, “Significant accounting policies” and Note G3, “Share-based compensation.”
1) In 2017 some of the derivatives hedging non-current liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet 
Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions may adversely impact the demand, cost and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers. This could cause operators and other customers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to main- tain or improve their financial position. This could also result in signifi- cantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, including network infrastructure, in which case our operating results would suffer. Geopolitical risks and trade frictions, e.g. between China and the USA, could negatively impact our global operations and global supply chain which may lead to tariffs or increased costs that may not be recoverable and may impact our profitability and/or disrupt our inter- national supply chain (including component supply, manufacturing, sourcing and deliveries of products and services) as well as our export and import activities. If demand for our products and services were to fall, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic conditions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other customers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur funding difficulties and slower traffic development, which may negatively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services. The potential adverse effects of an economic downturn include: – Reduced demand for products and services, resulting in increased 
We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring activities and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. Restructuring activities may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to achieve and retain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accu- mulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business such as our ability to develop, sell and deliver, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputation and share price.
We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants,and this could materially adversely affect our results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive in terms of price, functionality, service quality, customization, timing of devel- opment, and the introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from significant competitors, many of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with operators. We also encounter increased competition from new market entrants and alternative technologies are evolving industry standards. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and development costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share.
Certain long-term agreements with customers include commitments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production cap- acity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial counterpart risks to suppliers when we pay in advance for supplies. Such supply disrup- tions and cost increases may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we conduct business offer only limited protection of intellectual property rights, if at all. Our solutions may also require us to license technologies from third-parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and there can be no assurance that they will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third-parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products.
The presence of vulnerabilities in Ericsson’s products, services or operations, may not be detected during product development and operations, and may be leveraged by a threat actor to cause mate- rial harm to Ericsson or Ericsson’s customers. Products and Infrastructure used by Ericsson may contain vulnera- bilities that can be leveraged by a threat actor. In some situations, it may be impossible to detect these vulnerabilities due to their location, or due to the fact that they are unknown vulnerabilities, often referred to as “0-Day Vulnerability”. By the very nature of these vulnerabilities it is incredibly difficult for Ericsson to guarantee that the products and services provided by Ericsson are free from such vulnerabilities. Likewise, the Infrastructure that Ericsson relies on may also contain undetected or unmitigated vulnerabilities.
If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associ- ated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we determine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic conditions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. We may be unable to avoid future losses on our trade receiv- ables. We have also experienced demands for customer financing, and in adverse financial markets or more competitive environments, those demands may increase. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experience losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This may adversely affect the telecommunications business and may have a negative impact for people, our reputation and brand. 
We may fail to comply with our corporate governance standards, which could negatively affect our business, operating results,  financial condition, reputation and brand. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations as well as several sustainability and corporate responsibility requirements. In some of the countries where we operate, corruption risks are high and compliance failure could have a material impact on our business, finan- cial condition and brand, see “Inquiries from US authorities” in Board of Directors report. Therefore there is a high focus on anti-corruption. To ensure that our operations are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and requirements, our management system includes a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct and a Sustainability Policy, as well as other Group Policies and Directives to govern our processes and operations. However, our commitment to apply the UN Global Compact ten principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and principles of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative to our operations cannot fully 
The words “believe,” “expect,” “foresee,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “intend,” “likely,” “projects,” “may,” “could,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “predict,” “aim,” “ambition,” “seek,” “potential,” “tar- get,” “might,” “continue,” or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
sive anti-bribery and corruption risk assess- ment in its Market Areas which led to some adjustments to and further improvements of the program. 
In all mobile networks, connected devices communicate with base stations using radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (EMF), also known as radio waves. The adoption of mobile telephony since the 1990s has created some public concern that the radio waves from mobile phones and base stations may cause adverse health effects. Expert groups and public health authorities, including the World Health Organization (WHO, fact sheets 193 and 304), have reviewed available scientific studies and have concluded that the balance of evidence does not demonstrate any health effects associated with radio wave exposure from either mobile phones or radio base sta- tions complying with international limits.
The results show that, by weight, the sec- tors represent only about 0.5% of the global annual usage of sector-relevant materials. However, for some materials such as indium, gallium and germanium, the ICT and E&M sectors represent as much as 80–90% of the overall usage. While 0.5% of the usage is a very small amount, toxicity and resource- depletion results shows that the ICT and E&M sectors have a more substantial impact than their share of materials indicates.
Text på märket:
Over the past several years we have  sign ificantly increased resources devoted to compliance and investigations. We have introduced vetting of Executive Team mem­ bers and staff in over 150 key positions. Importantly, the key individuals identified by the DOJ and SEC are no longer with the com­ pany. In total, 49 people with some form of culpable involvement in the matters reported to the DOJ and SEC have left Ericsson.
In summary We are empowering an intelligent, sustaina­ ble and connected world by relentlessly inno­ vating technologies that are easy to adopt, use and scale. We have already connected billions of people, and our solutions are help­ ing to solve some of the planet’s biggest  challenges. Through our people, solutions and technology leadership we will continue to drive real, positive change in society. 
tive returns and to support Group financial targets. While contracts are expected to be profitable over time, some expansions may be associated with challenging near­term returns, as the cost for telecom operators to change vendor can be high.
Market trends The market area South East Asia, Oceania and India includes developed markets with some of the most advanced networks in the world, as well as emerging markets where there is more opportunity for mobile broadband capacity and coverage. In South East Asia and Oceania (excluding India), 3G is still the dominant technology, at 44% of all subscriptions in 2019. However, LTE subscriptions grew by approximately 35% during 2019, taking a 34% share of total mobile subscriptions in the region. In India, as a result of the strong growth in the number of LTE subscriptions over the past couple of years, LTE has emerged as the dominant technology during 2019. By year end 2019, LTE accounted for 48% of total mobile sub- scriptions, and the share of 2G subscriptions stood at 41%.
Our philosophies We have defined a set of people philosophies to build greater transparency and alignment about what informs some of our most critical people related decisions, and to reinforce our commitment to compliance and the impor- tance of demonstrating ethical and responsi- ble business practices in everything we do. We believe that: – Every individual is a talent. – We perform at our best when we know 
We are convinced that digitalization and mobile broadband networks will help tackle some of the global challenges our world faces today. We aim to be a trusted partner com mitted to building a better future for all stakeholders. In particular, the Company is delivering solutions that help customers and other industries be more efficient by reducing their energy consumption and climate impacts. We believe that combining business and societal value is the best way to create long term value for Ericsson. 
The resolution relates to historical FCPA breaches ending Q1 2017. While the Company had a compliance program and a supporting control framework, they were not adequately implemented. Specifically, certain employees in some markets, some of whom were executives in those markets, acted in bad faith and knowingly failed to implement sufficient controls. They were able to enter 
In 2012 and 2013, Intellectual Ventures (“IV”) filed patent infringement lawsuits in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s US customers of infringing 16 US Patents, seeking an injunction and monetary damages. IV subsequently filed additional lawsuits in the District of Delaware accusing some of Ericsson’s US customers of infringing 12 US Patents, seeking monetary damages. In 2017, IV filed additional lawsuits in the Eastern District of Texas accusing Ericsson and some of Ericsson’s U.S customers of infringing ten US Patents. In February 2019, a jury awarded IV damages of USD 43 million in one of those lawsuits. In June 2019 Ericsson announced that Ericsson and IV had signed a license agreement ending all patent infringement lawsuits between the companies. 
In some special circumstances where individuals cannot participate in the local pension plans of their home coun- tries of employment:
Additional arrangements By way of exception, additional arrangements can be made when deemed appropriate and necessary to recruit or retain an individual. Such arrangement could be in the form of short-term or long-term variable compensation or fixed component and can be renewed, but each such arrangement shall be limited in time and shall not exceed a period of 36 months and twice the annual fixed salary that the individual would have received if no additional arrangements were made. In addition, if appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied to the new appointment’s incentives in the first year. In addition, it may on a case by case basis be decided by the Board and the Committee respectively to compensate an individual for remuneration forfeited from a previous employer during recruitment. The Board and the Committee will consider on a case by case basis if all or some of the remuneration including incentives forfeited need to be ’bought-out’. If there is a buy-out of forfeited incentives, this will take into account relevant factors including the form they were granted (cash vs. shares), performance conditions attached to these awards and the time they would have vested/ paid. Generally, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
upon delivery of the hardware or software, or completion of installation ser- vices. A proportion of the transaction price may be billed upon formal accep- tance of the related installation services, which will result in a contract asset for the proportion of the transaction price that is not yet billed. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
Customized solution Some products and services are sold together as part of a customized solution to the customer. This type of contract requires significant installation and integration services to be delivered within the solution, normally over a period of more than one year. These products and services are viewed together as a combined performance obligation. This type of contract is usually sold as 
Transaction price under these contracts is usually a fixed fee, split into a number of progress payments or billing milestones as defined in the contract. In most cases, revenue recognized is limited to the progress payments or unconditional billing milestones over the duration of the contract, therefore no contract asset or contract liability arises on these contracts. In some contracts, revenue may be recognized in advance of billing milestones if enforceable payment rights exist at all times over the contract duration. This will result in an unbilled receivable balance until billing milestones are reached. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
based on sales or usage over the period, measured on a quarterly basis. This results in a receivable balance if the billing is performed the following quarter after measurement. Some contracts include lump sum amounts, payable either up front at commencement or on an annual basis. This results in a contract liability balance if payment is in advance of revenue, as revenue is recognized over time. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date.
Accounting policies applied as of January 2019 – IFRS 16 Leases Leasing when the Company is the lessee The Company recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from all leases in the balance sheet, with some exceptions. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee always obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right.
The amount charged to the income statement for these plans is reversed in equity each time of the income statement charge. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share-settled program is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions. 
previously classified as operating leases. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities recognized in the balance sheet at the transition date was 5.4%. Right-of-use assets have for most contracts been recognized based on the amount equal to the related lease liability. For some larger real estate contracts right-of-use assets have been recognized as if IFRS 16 had been applied since the commencement date, however, using the incremental borrowing rate as per the effective date. The asset value for these contracts is SEK 0.2 billion lower than the related liabilities. This difference caused a reduction of equity as per transition date.
securities such as treasury bills, government bonds, commercial papers, and mortgage-covered bonds (see Liquidity risk section below). Separate credit  limits are assigned to each counterpart in order to minimize risk concentration. All derivative transactions are covered by ISDA netting agreements to reduce the credit risk. For cross-currency swaps a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to ISDA is signed to further reduce the credit risk by exchanging collateral weekly against market value. The Company has also moved some derivative expo- sures to clearing counterparties with daily settlement of margins.
Financial instruments carried at other than fair value Financial instruments, such as some cash equivalents, interest-bearing securities, borrowings and payables, are carried at amortized cost which is deemed to be equal to fair value. When a market price is not readily available and there is insign i ficant interest rate exposure and credit spreads affecting the value, the carrying value is considered to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value. 
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price (through stock purchase plans for employees) and other share-based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share-settled and some are cash-settled as further disclosed in note A1, “Significant accounting policies” and note G3, “Share-based compensation.”
1.2 Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions may adversely impact the demand, cost and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. Challenging global economic conditions and political unrest and uncertainty, geopolitical risks and trade frictions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers. This could cause operators and other customers to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to maintain or improve their financial position. This could also result in significantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, includ- ing network infrastructure, in which case our operating results would suffer. Geopolitical risks and trade frictions, e.g. between China and the US, could negatively impact our global operations, including research & development and supply chain in those and other countries, as they may lead to tariffs or increased costs that may not be recoverable and may impact our profitability and/or disrupt our international product devel- opment, supply chain (including component supply, manufacturing, sourcing and deliveries of products and services) as well as our export and import activities. If demand for our products and services were to fall, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic conditions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other customers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur funding difficulties and slower traffic development, which may negatively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services. 
1.5 We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring activities and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. Restructuring activities may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to achieve and retain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accu- mulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business such as our ability to develop, sell and deliver, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputa- tion and share price.
1.11 We face intense competition from our existing competitors as well as new entrants, and this could materially adversely affect our results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive in terms of price, functionality, service quality, customization, timing of develop- ment, and the introduction of new products and services. We face intense competition from significant competitors, many of which are very large, with substantial technological and financial resources and established relationships with operators. We also encounter increased competition from new market entrants and alternative technologies are evolving industry standards. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic markets than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and development costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share. 
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production capac- ity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial counterpart risks to suppliers when we pay in advance for supplies. Such supply disruptions and cost increases may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.
1.15 Certain long-term agreements with customers include commit- ments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
1.16 If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty col- lecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we deter- mine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic condi- tions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. We may be unable to avoid future losses on our trade receivables. We have also experienced demands for customer financing, and in adverse financial markets or more competitive environments, those demands may increase. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experi- ence losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we conduct business offer only limited protection of intellectual property rights, if at all. Our solutions may also require us to license technologies from third-parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses and there can be no assurance that they will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third-parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products. 
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This 
and the systems and storage and other business applications main- tained by our third-party providers, have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to cyber intrusions, including attempts to gain unauthorized access, breach, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to detect immediately such incidents and the damage caused thereby. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs in our network or any of our third-party provid- ers’ networks, we could incur significant costs and our reputation could be harmed. While we work to safeguard our internal network systems and validate the security of our third party providers to mitigate these potential risks, including through information security policies and employee awareness and training, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or security breaches.
4.2 The presence of vulnerabilities in Ericsson’s products, services or operations, may not be detected during product development and operations, and may be leveraged by a threat actor to cause mate- rial harm to Ericsson or Ericsson’s customers. Products and Infrastructure used by Ericsson may contain vulner- abilities that can be leveraged by a threat actor. In some situations, it may be impossible to detect these vulnerabilities due to their location, or due to the fact that they are unknown vulnerabilities, often referred to as “0-Day Vulnerability”. By the very nature of these vulnerabilities it is incredibly difficult for Ericsson to guarantee that the products and ser- vices provided by Ericsson are free from such vulnerabilities. Likewise, the Infrastructure that Ericsson relies on may also contain undetected or unmitigated vulnerabilities.
5.2 We may fail to comply with our corporate governance stan- dards, which could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation and brand. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations as well as several sustainability and corporate responsibility requirements. In some of the countries where we operate, corruption risks are high and compliance failure could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and brand, see “US FCPA investigations” in Board of Directors report. Therefore there is a high focus on anti-corruption. To ensure that our operations are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and requirements, our management system includes a Code of Business Ethics, a Code of Conduct for Business Partners and a Sustainability Policy, as well as other Group Policies and Directives to govern our processes and operations. However, our commitment to apply the UN Global Compact ten principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and principles of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative to our operations cannot fully prevent unintended or unlawful use of our technology by democratic and non-democratic regimes, violation of our Code of Busi- ness Ethics, corruption, fraud, embezzlement, or violations of anti-trust legislation, trade restrictions and international sanctions or our Code of Conduct for Business Partners in Ericsson or in the supply chain. There is also an increased demand from external stakeholders, for example non-governmental organizations and investors, on transparency about sustainability and corporate responsibility issues that might be difficult to fulfill. While we attempt to monitor and audit internally and externally our compliance with the policies and directives as well as our suppliers’ adherence to our Code of Conduct and strive for continuous improve- ments, we cannot provide any assurances that violations will not occur which could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, and brand.
The words “believe”, “expect”, “foresee”, “anticipate”, “assume”, “intend”, “likely”, “projects”, “may”, “could”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “will”, “should”, “would”, “predict”, “aim”, “ambition”, “seek”, “potential”, “target”, “might”, “continue”, or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
External rules As a Swedish public limited liability company with securities quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm as well as on NASDAQ New York, Ericsson is subject to a variety of rules that affect its governance. Some relevant external rules applicable to Ericsson’s governance include: – The Swedish Companies Act – Applicable EU regulations – The Rule Book for Issuers, Nasdaq Stockholm – The Swedish Corporate Governance Code 
establish an adequate and effective manage­ ment of risk, i.e. the uncertainty in achieving the strategic objectives of the company. The framework provides methods to identify, assess and treat the risks, and to agree on the Company’s risk appetite and risk tolerance. The ERM framework is based on five ele­ ments (illustrated above and described in the following text). It is applied across Ericsson’s operations and covers business areas, market areas and group functions. The framework comprises the minimum requirements that the units must meet to have a common basis for ERM to enable transparency and risk oversight. 
The Committee throughout the year approved adjustments and changes to individual remuneration packages of some of the  members of the ET.
“We are convinced that digitalization and mobile broadband networks will help tackle some of the global challenges our world faces today. We aim to be a trusted partner committed to building a better future for all stakeholders.”
Corporate Investigations closed 566 cases in 2019, including some related to compliance concerns reported before 2019. As of Decem­ ber 31, 2019, 167 cases remained open, all of which relate to compliance concerns reported in 2019. See Reported Compliance Concerns graph reported by category.
Below some diversity indicators for 2019: – Early engagement of the Company’s 
In all mobile networks, including the fifth generation (5G), connected devices communi­ cate with base stations using radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (EMF), also known as radio waves. Since the adoption of mobile telephony in the 1990s there has been some public concern that the radio waves from mobile phones and base stations may cause adverse health effects. Expert groups and public health authorities, including the World Health Organization (WHO, fact sheets 193 and 304), have reviewed available scientific studies and have concluded that the balance of evidence does not demonstrate any health effects associated with radio wave exposure from either mobile phones or radio base sta­ tions complying with international limits.
 – Absence of scalable sustainable solutions in some regions could adversely impact Ericsson’s own activities strategy and target fulfillment.
Text på märket:
 – Profitable: growth is managed for positive returns and to support Group financial targets. New contracts for increased mar- ket footprint, may in some cases be associ- ated with challenging near-term returns as the cost for telecom operators to change vendors can be high, however contracts are expected to be profitable over time.
5G – new revenue opportunities With 5G our industry will move beyond con- necting people; it will also connect machines and things. 5G is a powerful platform for inno- vation, opening up new revenue opportunities for telecom operators in both the consumer segment and the enterprise segment. We are already seeing that 5G is supporting telecom operators to deliver new, differentiating services to consumers with upside revenue potential, and there is also significant upside revenue potential for telecom operators who invest in delivering new 5G enterprise services. Our studies show that, globally, telecom operators could see an additional revenue opportunity of some USD 700 billion by 2030, driven by industry sectors such as healthcare, manufacturing and automotive.
In some special circumstances where individuals cannot participate in the local pension plans of their home countries of employment:
Additional arrangements By way of exception, additional arrangements can be made when deemed appropriate and necessary to recruit or retain an individual. Such arrangement could be in the form of short-term or long-term variable compensation or fixed component and can be renewed, but each such arrangement shall be limited in time and shall not exceed a period of 36 months and twice the annual fixed salary that the individual would have received if no additional arrangements were made. In addition, if appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied to the new appointment’s incentives in the first year. In addition, it may on a case by case basis be decided by the Board and the Committee respectively to compensate an individual for remuneration forfeited from a previous employer during recruitment. The Board and the Committee will consider on a case by case basis if all or some of the remuneration including incentives forfeited need to be ’bought-out’. If there is a buy-out of forfeited incentives, this will take into account relevant factors including the form they were granted (cash vs. shares), performance conditions attached to these awards and the time they would have vested/ paid. Generally, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
upon delivery of the hardware or software, or completion of installation ser- vices. A proportion of the transaction price may be billed upon formal accept- ance of the related installation services, which will result in a contract asset for the proportion of the transaction price that is not yet billed. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days. 
Customized solution Some products and services are sold together as part of a customized solution to the customer. This type of contract requires significant installation and integration services to be delivered within the solution, normally over a period of more than one year. These products and services are viewed together as a combined performance obligation. This type of contract is usually sold as a firm contract in which the scope of the solution and obligations of both parties are clearly defined for the duration of the contract. Customized solution does not have any alternative use to the Company as it cannot be sold to or used by other customers.
Transaction price under these contracts is usually a fixed fee, split into a number of progress payments or billing milestones as defined in the contract. In most cases, revenue recognized is limited to the progress payments or unconditional billing milestones over the duration of the contract, therefore no contract asset or contract liability arises on these contracts. In some contracts, revenue may be recognized in advance of billing milestones if enforceable payment rights exist at all times over the contract duration. This will result in an unbilled receivable balance until billing milestones are reached. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date. Customer finance agreements may be agreed separately with some customers where payment terms exceed 179 days.
based on sales or usage over the period, measured on a quarterly basis. This results in a receivable balance if the billing is performed the following quarter after measurement. Some contracts include lump sum amounts, payable either up front at commencement or on an annual basis. This results in a contract liability balance if payment is in advance of revenue, as revenue is recognized over time. Amounts billed are normally subject to payments terms within 60 days from invoice date.
Share-settled plans Compensation costs are recognized during the vesting period, based on the fair value of the Ericsson share at the grant date, as well as considering perfor- mance – and market conditions. Examples of performance conditions could be revenue and profit targets while market conditions relate to the development of the Parent Company’s share price in relation to a group of reference shares. For share-settled plans, a corresponding increase in equity shall be rec- ognized. The reason for this IFRS accounting principle is that compensation cost for a share-settled program is a cost with no direct cash flow impact. All plans have service conditions and some of them have performance or market conditions.
Supplier payments program Judgments made in relation to accounting policies applied With the aim of increasing working capital efficiency, Ericsson continuously renegotiates payment days with suppliers. The negotiations with suppliers for payment days is an integral part of the procurement activities. Some 
securities such as treasury bills, government bonds, commercial papers, and mortgage-covered bonds (see Liquidity risk section below). Separate credit limits are assigned to each counterpart in order to minimize risk concentration. All derivative transactions are covered by ISDA netting agreements to reduce the credit risk. For cross-currency swaps a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to ISDA is signed to further reduce the credit risk by exchanging collateral weekly against market value. The Company has also moved some derivative expo- sures to clearing counterparties with daily settlement of margins.
Fair valuation of the Company’s financial instruments The Company’s financial instruments accounted for at fair value generally meet the requirements of level 1 valuation as they are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets. For some of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, especially derivatives, quoted prices are not readily avail- able and fair values are calculated using market inputs such as interest rate quotes and currency rates.
Financial instruments carried at amortized cost Financial instruments, such as some cash equivalents, interest-bearing securi- ties, borrowings and payables, are carried at amortized cost which is deemed to be equal to fair value. When a market price is not readily available and there is insignificant interest rate exposure and credit spreads affecting the value, the carrying value is considered to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value.
Market price risk in own shares and other listed equity investments The Company is exposed to fluctuations in its own share price through share- based compensation for employees and the Board of Directors. Some of the plans are share-settled and some are cash-settled as further disclosed in note A1 “Significant accounting policies”, note G2 “Information regarding members of the Board of Directors and Group management” and note G3 “Share-based compensation.”
1.2 Challenging global economic conditions may adversely impact the demand, cost and pricing for our products and services as well as limit our ability to grow. The challenging global economic conditions, e.g. due to the pandemic, downturn in the global economy, political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical risks and trade frictions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our custom- ers. This could cause operators and other customers to postpone invest- ments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to maintain or improve their financial position. This could also result in significantly reduced expenditures for our products and services, including network infra- structure, in which case our operating results would suffer. If demand for our products and services were to fall, we could experience material adverse effects on our revenues, cash flow, capital employed and value of our assets and we could incur operating losses. Furthermore, if demand is significantly weaker or more volatile than expected, our credit rating, borrowing opportunities and costs as well as the trading price of our shares could be adversely impacted. Should global economic condi- tions fail to improve or worsen or should political unrest and uncertainty or geopolitical problems fail to improve or worsen, other business risks we face could intensify and could also negatively impact the business prospects of operators and other customers. Some operators and other customers, in particular in markets with weak currencies, may incur funding difficulties and slower traffic development, which may nega- tively affect their investment plans and cause them to purchase less of our products and services.
implement new technologies before we do, offer more attractively priced or enhanced products, services or solutions, or they may offer other incentives that we do not provide. Some of our competitors may also have greater resources in certain business segments or geographic areas than we do. Increased competition could result in reduced profit margins, loss of market share, increased research and development costs as well as increased sales and marketing expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,  financial condition and market share.
Furthermore, our procurement of supplies requires us to predict future customer demands. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production cap- acity could occur. In many cases, some of our competitors utilize the same manufacturers and if they have purchased capacity ahead of us we could be blocked from acquiring the needed products. This factor could limit our ability to supply our customers and increase costs. At the same time, we commit to certain capacity levels or component quanti- ties, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity, not fully recoverable costs or scrapping costs. We are also exposed to financial 
1.15 Certain long-term agreements with customers include commit- ments to future price reductions, requiring us to constantly manage and control our cost base. Long-term agreements with our customers are typically awarded on a competitive bidding basis. In some cases, such agreements also include a commitment to future price reductions. In order to maintain our gross margin with such price reductions, we continuously strive to reduce the costs of our products through design improvements, negotiation of better purchase prices from our suppliers, allocation of more production to low-cost countries and increased productivity in our own production. However, there can be no assurance that our actions to reduce costs will be sufficient or quick enough to maintain our gross margin in such contracts, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.
1.16 If our customers’ financial conditions decline, we will be exposed to increased credit and commercial risks. After completing sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty col- lecting accounts receivables and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectable accounts receivable. We regularly assess the credit worthiness of our customers and based on that assessment we deter- mine a credit limit for each one of them. Challenging economic condi- tions have impacted some of our customers’ ability to pay their invoices. 
Moreover, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to establish and enforce our proprietary rights. In fact, existing legal systems of some countries in which we 
1.24 We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring activities and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. Restructuring activities may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to achieve and retain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. Additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accu- mulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees’ time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences and negative impacts on the business such as our ability to develop, sell and deliver, and we cannot be sure that any ongoing or future restructuring efforts will be successful or generate expected cost savings. Factors that may impede a successful implementation include the retention of key employees, the impact of regulatory matters, and adverse economic market conditions. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows,  reputation and share price.
There has been a concern reported by some media and others, that certain countries may use features of their telecommunications systems in ways that could result in potential violation of human rights. This may adversely affect the telecommunications business and may have a negative impact for people, our reputation and brand.
Our network systems and storage and other business applications, and the systems, storage and other business applications maintained by our third-party providers, have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to cyber intrusions, including attempts to gain unauthor- ized access, breach, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it is difficult to anticipate or to detect immediately such incidents and the damage caused thereby. If an actual or perceived breaches of security occurs in our network or any of our third-party providers’ 
4.2 The presence of vulnerabilities in Ericsson’s products, services or operations, may not be detected during product development and operations, and may be leveraged by a threat actor to cause material harm to Ericsson or Ericsson’s customers. Products and infrastructure used by Ericsson may contain vulnerabilities that can be leveraged by a threat actor. In some situations, it may be impossible to detect these vulnerabilities due to their location, or due to the fact that they are unknown vulnerabilities, often referred to as “zero day vulnerabilities”. By the very nature of these vulnerabilities it is extremely difficult for Ericsson to guarantee that the products and ser- vices provided by Ericsson are free from such vulnerabilities. Likewise, the Infrastructure that Ericsson relies on may also contain undetected or unmitigated vulnerabilities.
The words “believe”, “expect”, “foresee”, “anticipate”, “assume”, “intend”, “likely”, “projects”, “may”, “could”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “will”, “should”, “would”, “predict”, “aim”, “ambition”, “seek”, “potential”, “target”, “might”, “continue”, or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
External rules As a Swedish public limited liability company with securities quoted on Nasdaq Stockholm as well as on NASDAQ New York, Ericsson is subject to a variety of rules that affect its governance. Some relevant external rules applicable to Ericsson’s governance include: – The Swedish Companies Act – Applicable EU regulations – Nordic Main Market Rulebook for Issuers of 
following text). It is applied across Ericsson’s operations and covers business areas, market areas and group functions. The framework comprises the minimum requirements that the units must meet to have a common basis for ERM to enable transparency and risk oversight. 
Some of the topics addressed in 2020 include human rights, anti-corruption, health, safety and well-being, responsible sourcing, climate action, energy performance, digital inclusion and sustainable development. Stakeholder engagement takes a variety of forms such as joint projects, advocacy, meetings, surveys 
Ericsson’s aim to achieving gender balance by 2020 was driven by ambitious, local recruit- ment targets, increased awareness raising, and activation through local and global initia- tives. The year 2020 was spent investing in expertise to develop a new approach to D&I as well as launching several foundational initia- tives that will deliver continued impact over time. Some achievements this year included: – Establishing ALTitude, a leadership 
To address the concern that some people 
In all mobile networks, including 5G, con- nected devices communicate with base stations using radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (EMF), also known as radio waves. Since the adoption of mobile telephony in the 1990s there has been some public concern that the radio waves from mobile phones and base sta- tions may cause adverse health effects. Expert groups and public health authorities, including the World Health Organization (WHO, fact sheets 193 and 304), have reviewed the avail- able science and concluded that no health effects are associated with radio wave expo- sure from either mobile phones or radio base stations complying with international limits. Most national authorities have adopted 
 – Absence of scalable sustainable climate solutions in some regions could adversely impact Ericsson’s own activities strategy and target fulfilment.
5) Approximately 62% of transport distances are based on data reported by service logistics providers. For a smaller share, primarily related to the first/last mile of the total distance transported by truck and some additional air transport, estimations have been made based on transported weights and distance to destinations. 
The words “believe”, “expect”, “foresee”, “anticipate”, “assume”, “intend”, “likely”, “projects”, “may”, “could”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “will”, “should”, “would”, “predict”, “aim”, “ambition”, “seek”, “potential”, “target”, “might”, “continue”, or, in each case, their negative or variations, and similar words or expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Any statement that refers to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. 
Text på märket: